[1/4] Document threshold policies and security assumptions (#221)
near/threshold-signatures: docs/threshold_policies.md

## ThresholdPolicy & SchemeRules

- **ThresholdPolicy:**  
  Defines which parameters (`N`, `f`, `t`, participant set) must remain invariant.  
  Default: **full invariance across all subprotocols**.

- **SchemeRules:**  
  Future, scheme-specific exceptions.  
  No exceptions exist today; all protocols must treat thresholds as fixed.

## Persistence Requirement

All keys, shares, or transcripts that leave the protocol must embed `(N, f, t)` so future API calls can enforce invariants even if the caller did not store them. Treat this as a `ThresholdMeta` record that every subprotocol must serialize and verify.

Keep `f` explicit even when `t = f + 1`. The current schemes tie `t` to `f`, but future `SchemeRules` may relax that relation; persisting both prevents silent downgrades if a protocol later allows `t != f + 1`.

---

# Scheme-Specific Constraints

## Distributed Key Generation (DKG)

- **Fault tolerance:**  

>   `f <= floor(N / 3)` due to asynchronous reliable broadcast.

Reviewer: I would say instead 3f+1 <= N
This rule does not work if N is divisible by 3

# Threshold Policies & Security Assumptions

> This document defines the **non-negotiable invariants** between participant count `N`, tolerated malicious parties `f`, reconstruction threshold `t`, and liveness requirements. All protocols in this repository **must** enforce these rules unless a future `SchemeRules` table explicitly allows an exception.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This document defines the **non-negotiable invariants** between the total number of participants `N`, the tolerated maximal number of malicious parties `f`, the reconstruction threshold `t`, and the liveness requirements. All protocols in this repository **must** enforce these rules unless a future `SchemeRules` table explicitly allows an exception.
```

## Global Principle

**The tuple `(N, f, t)` chosen at key generation is fixed for all subprotocols**  
(keygen → presign/offline → signing → refresh → resharing).  

> Any deviation **must be rejected** unless explicitly whitelisted by `SchemeRules`.

Reviewer 2: alright, probably in the future PRs then it will make sense. Although also maybe worth asking, do we have a variable for $f$ because at some point that invariant $f = t-1$ might not hold anymore?

_If a different threshold is needed, run a new DKG._

## Why invariance is mandatory

Changing thresholds at any stage can silently weaken security (e.g., reducing signing quorum, increasing adversarial influence, or invalidating proofs from DKG). Recent industry incidents show this is a practical risk. The library therefore enforces all parameters unless explicitly allowed.

## ThresholdPolicy & SchemeRules

- **ThresholdPolicy:**  
  Defines which parameters (`N`, `f`, `t`, participant set) must remain invariant.  
  Default: **full invariance across all subprotocols**.

- **SchemeRules:**  
  Future, scheme-specific exceptions.  
  No exceptions exist today; all protocols must treat thresholds as fixed.

## Persistence Requirement

All keys, shares, or transcripts that leave the protocol must embed `(N, f, t)` so future API calls can enforce invariants even if the caller did not store them.

> 

Author: ```diff
+Treat this as a `ThresholdMeta` record that every subprotocol must serialize and verify.

+Keep `f` explicit even when `t = f + 1`. The current schemes tie `t` to `f`, but future `SchemeRules` may relax that relation; persisting both prevents silent downgrades if a protocol later allows `t != f + 1`.
```

- **Invariance:**  
  Keygen, triple generation, presign, sign, refresh all share the same `(f, t)`.

## Robust ECDSA (secret-sharing-based)

- **Parameterization:**  
  Scheme is defined by `f`; effective threshold derived from `f`.
- **Liveness:**  
  Signing requires `N_live >= 2f + 1`.  
  If this fails, resharing is required before signing.
- **Invariance:**  
  `f` remains constant across keygen, presign (if present), signing, refresh.  
  (Future SchemeRules may allow `N_live` to exceed offline `N`, but not implemented yet.)

---

# Refresh & Resharing Safety

- Never change thresholds during refresh/resharing. Doing so breaks the assumptions of all supported schemes.
- To adopt a new threshold: **Perform a new DKG**, archive the old key, and migrate intentionally.
- Threshold metadata must always be persisted together with key/share identifiers.

---

# Consequences of Misconfiguration

| Misconfiguration                            | Failure Mode                                                          |
| ------------------------------------------- | --------------------------------------------------------------------- |

> | `f >= N/3` in DKG                           | Broadcast assumptions break; safety and liveness lost.                |

Author: Thank you @gilcu3 for your input.

Would this be more precise?
```diff
+`f >= floor(N / 3)` in DKG 
```

> | `f >= N/3` in DKG                           | Broadcast assumptions break; safety and liveness lost.                |

Reviewer 2: yes, wherever we use fractions and compare them with integers we should be explicit: using floor or ceil

## ThresholdPolicy & SchemeRules

- **ThresholdPolicy:**  
  Defines which parameters (`N`, `f`, `t`, participant set) must remain invariant.  
  Default: **full invariance across all subprotocols**.

- **SchemeRules:**  
  Future, scheme-specific exceptions.  
  No exceptions exist today; all protocols must treat thresholds as fixed.

## Persistence Requirement

All keys, shares, or transcripts that leave the protocol must embed `(N, f, t)` so future API calls can enforce invariants even if the caller did not store them. Treat this as a `ThresholdMeta` record that every subprotocol must serialize and verify.

Keep `f` explicit even when `t = f + 1`. The current schemes tie `t` to `f`, but future `SchemeRules` may relax that relation; persisting both prevents silent downgrades if a protocol later allows `t != f + 1`.

---

# Scheme-Specific Constraints

## Distributed Key Generation (DKG)

- **Fault tolerance:**  
  `f <= floor(N / 3)` due to asynchronous reliable broadcast.
- **Threshold:**  

>   `t = f + 1` (design choice; distinct from `N - f`).

Author: When I say the DKG uses a **design choice**, I mean its threshold is explicitly set to `t = f + 1` because that’s the minimum needed to block `f` colluding adversaries from recovering the secret.
This is **not** the same as `N - f`, which is simply the worst-case count of honest parties.

They differ for a reason: tying `t` to `N - f` would force every honest participant to be involved in reconstruction. Using `t = f + 1` avoids that—DKG security only depends on resisting `f` adversaries, not on the total number of honest nodes. It keeps the quorum minimal, avoids accidental assumptions about honesty counts, and gives better liveness under churn.
